So you know weighted fake queuing scheduling algorithm packets are classified based on flows rather
than classes.
So a flow classification would be done as an example and source and destination IP address.
The protocol and a port number.
The idea with weighted fake queuing is that a weight is added to a flow based on different criteria
such as IP precedence or RSVP which is resource reservation protocol.
Waited for queuing However prior to rises smaller packets over larger packets.
So it's a fairer queuing algorithm in that it provides a better quality of service for small packets.
Small packets are generally used for interactive sessions so as an example of voice packet may only
be 20 bytes in size whereas an empty packet could be fifteen hundred points in size so larger payloads
or larger packets are generally sent by data applications.
Interactive applications such as Telnet to its S H or voice tend to have smaller packets so weighted
for queuing prior to rises.
Smaller packets over larger packets and you can increase that pro translation by adding a weight to
smaller packets based on IP precedents as an example.
So in brief a voice packet that's 20 bytes.
If it has an IP precedents of five will appear to be four bytes in size.
In other words 20 bytes divided by five.
It appears to be smaller and therefore is proud to rise over large data packets so it uses a clever
scheduling algorithm to poor tries smaller interactive packets which you can make appear even smaller
by increasing the IP precedents of the packet so that smaller packets are transmitted before larger
packets.
The problem with weighted fake queuing is it doesn't provide bandwidth guarantees.
So as an example FTB could starve HDP traffic data flows can stall out one another so therefore Cisco
developed class based weighted fake queuing where you can guarantee bandwidth to specific classes and
provide dynamic fairness of other flows.
It's a class based way to fix queuing essentially allows you to create different classes where you can
specify a minimum bandwidth for specific classes of traffic and waited for queuing could be used on
the best effort class to ensure that traffic is handled fairly in the best effort.
Class.